### What is a movie API?

A movie API provides information from an online information repository related to movies, TV shows, and people (cast and crew). The repository also keeps data related to each of these items, such as the cast, crew, plot summaries, user reviews, ratings, release dates, and more. Most of the movie APIs collect data primarily from the users themselves and content generated by the users.

A movie API platform makes it easy for its users to get all this data through an extensive set of endpoints. The endpoints can be used to query for any information regarding movies. A number of similar movie APIs exist but in this course, we’ll explore and use The Movie Database API.

### Use cases of TMDB APIs

Any application that relies on or uses the information related to movies and TV shows can benefit from the services provided by the movie APIs.

The available movie APIs have so much helpful information. These APIs make it much easier for developers to use all the relevant data in their applications. Imagine collecting the whole data from scratch; it’s a big task that would require massive time and effort. A developer intending to create an application for movies should keep an eye on the movie API that is most independently efficient. This decreases their own efforts. Other than using the movie APIs in development, we can even perform data analytics or build exciting and fun quizzes for movies and TV shows to get more information from the users.


### What is The Movie Database?

The Movie Database (TMDB) is a popular, community-built database for movies and TV shows. All the content has been added and updated by users dating back to the year 2008. TMDB has a strong focus on collecting data from around the globe, and covers a wide range of data, most of which can only be found on TMDB.

### What is TMDB API?

TMDB API allows us to programmatically fetch and use data provided by TMDB. The TMDB API service is for those interested in using the movie, TV show/season, or actor data and, if required, images in their application.

### Why TMDB?

* Each year since 2008, the number of contributions to TMDB has increased. This led to over 400,000 developers and companies currently using TMDB, making it a premier source for metadata.

* TMDB not only provides users with extensive metadata for movies, TV shows, and people but also offers one of the best selections of high-resolution posters and fan art. Almost 1,000 new images are added to the collection everyday.

* TMDB is international. While it officially supports 39 languages, it also has extensive regional data. Each day, the platform is used in more than 180 countries.

* TMDB community is incomparable. Between its staff and community moderators, it’s always available for help. The team is passionate about ensuring that the user gets the best experience on TMDB.

* TMDB is a trusted platform. It processes over 3 billion requests every day. The team has proven for years that this is a service that can be trusted and relied on.






